Many of the commands we will use to create
our object in JSCAD will be quite familiar
from what we already learned through p5.js.
In this first video i will show you how to
create simple 2D shapes. Why 2D shapes in a
3D environment? In one of the next videos,
i will explain you how you can use 2D shapes to
extrude them and thereby create 3D shapes. You can
start with very simple simple 2D shapes and then
use the extrusion functions to create 3D objects.
I've created a very simple array here and we will
use the array to push all our 2d objects into it
and then we return it as part of the main
function, to then preview it in our renderer.
We start with the most simple one, the line. I
will create a variable to store our line object in
and then call the line command. The line
command takes a simple array with two
coordinates, the start and the end point.
And i will start at -50/-50 and go to 50/50.
And then of course i need to add it to
our array so that we can actually see it.
Save it and now in the preview we can see we
have drawn a line in our coordinate system.
The next object we already know from p5.js. It's
the arc. The arc function now takes an object as
a parameter, and here we first start by defining
the center of our circle, which we then take one
arc from. By default this is 0/0. I will leave
it at that. Then we need to define the radius.
I will define this by 500 and then
we need to define the startAngle
and the endAngle of our arc, similar to p5.js.
And similar to p5.js we need to define this in
radians. So again our little formula. PI
divided by 180 and now we can simply multiply it
by the degrees we want the angle to go to.
So i will draw this from 0 to 90 degrees
and then we need to define segments. So whenever
we want to draw something round in a 3D space,
we usually need to provide segments, because round
things are divided into smaller straight lines or
smaller straight planes that are connected to
one another. The reason behind this is that
calculating certain things in 3D space, based on
round shapes is very complicated, and to make the
calculations faster, we use straight lines and
the more segments we divide the circle into, the
more complex our structure becomes and the slower
the processing gets. So you always have to think:
how many segments do i really need to make it look
round and how much segments can my system process
in time. I will use 32 segments to divide our
circle by. Push the whole thing into our array.
And now we have a quarter of a circle drawn here.
And to continue, there are two more functions
to draw round-ish objects. The second one is
the circle. For the circle we can almost use
the same parameters as for arc. This is why
i'm simply replacing our arc function here.
In this case, obviously, we don't need a start and
end angle, because we want to draw it from 0 to
2 times PI, is 360 degrees, so i can simply remove
the start and end angle and now get a circle. And
for the ellipse it's also almost the same, but
an ellipse can obviously have different height
and width, so instead of only providing one
radius, we can provide an array of radii and,
thereby, create an ellipse object and
that has a different width and height.
The last object i want to introduce you to is the
rectangle. For this we use the rectangle function
which also takes an object again, we have
the center where this should be placed,
and then we have the size parameter. And again
because it has different width and height,
we have an array of two elements. And then
we need to push it into our objects array.
Save the whole thing and now
we have a rectangle as well.